README.md 
Author: Ron Phelps
Feb 28th, 2016

Downloading and extracting data files
-------------------------------------

# The following code was used to download un extract all the data files used

url <- "https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip"
download(url, dest="dataset.zip", mode="wb")
unzip ("dataset.zip", exdir = "./")

Analysis program “run_analysis.R”
---------------------------------
The run_analysis.R program processes the data downloaded and extracted into two diretories – test and train – in the following manner.

subject_test, X_test, y_test, subject_train, X_train, y_train are read into separate data frames.

The single columns in each of the subject* and y* dataframes are renamed to “SubjectID” and “Activity”.

The column indexes for all features that are either a mean or standard deviation (std) measurement are extracted from the X* files.

All mean and std columns are extracted into one of four dataframes
and the column labels for the mean and std cols are extracted and written to these four dataframes

The dataframes generated from the test dir files are combined into one dataframe “test.df” using the cbind function. The dataframes generated from the train dir files are combined in like manner. 

The test.df and train.df dataframes are then combined using the rbind function to create one dataframe - combined.df.

Next a series of things happens, the mean for each column is calculated using the aggregate function. The aggregation is done by subject and activity. Next the dataframe is sorted by SubjectID and Activity. Next the column names are updated to indicate that all the new values will be the means of the data for each subject for each activity, by  wrapping the original column names with “mean().” 

Activities codes are replaced with their text descritions. SubjectID's are left as numbers since changing them to subject1, subject2 ... subjectn adds no information.

The last change is to re-order the row numbers so the dataframe which was sorted in an earlier step now has sequential row numbers.

Output: Tidy dataframe of the mean of each each extracted measurement 
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Output dataframe is renamed to “human_activity_recognition_measurement_means.df”

Removing temporary variables
------------------------------
Several rm() statements are commented out at end of program so that if the user wishes they can uncomment them to remove the intermediate variables generated by the program from the workspace. 
